# __Variable__


## Initializers

- Initializations is **not assigment**.
- Initialization happens when a variable is **given a value** when it is **created**.
- Assignment obliterates an object's current value and reaplaces that value with a new one.

## List Initialization

- When used with variable of built-in type, this form of initialization has one important property :    
The comiler will not let us list initialize variables of built-in type if the initializer might lead to the loss of information
```cpp
long double ld = 3.141592;

int a{ld}, b = {ld}; // error : narrowing conversoin required

int c(ld), d = ld; // Ok : but value will be truncated
```

- The compiler rejects the initializations of *a* and *b*.
- Because using a *long double* to initialize and *int* is likely to lose data. (**floating-point**)
- So, the fractional part of ld will be truncated. (**In addition, the integer part in ld might be too large to fit in an *int*.**)

## Default Initialization
- When we define a variable without an initializer, the variable is **default initialized.**
- Such variables are given the "default" value.
- With out one exception, which we cover in (CPP primer 5th, p.205), variables of built-in type defined insite a function are **uninitialized.**

- Similarity, such classes supply an appropriate default value for us.
```cpp
std::string S; //empty implicity initialized to the empty string
Sales_item item; // default-initialized Sales_item object
```
---
### NOTE
- Uninitialized objects of built-in type defined inside a function body have undefined value.   
Objects of class type that we do not explicitly initialize have a value that is defined by the class.
---

## Variable Declarations and Definition

- To support separate compilation, cpp distinguishes between  
**declarations** and **definitions**
```cpp
extern int i; // declares
int k = 1e2; // defines
```

- ### Declaration
    - Making a name known to the program.
    - A file that wants to use a name defined elsewhere includes a declaration for that name.
- ### Definition
    - Creating the associated entity.


---
### NOTE
- Varable must be defined exactly once but can be declared many times.
---
